# cloud

**IT infrastructure** consists of software, the hardware, network, an service required for an organization to operate in an enterprise IT environment.
[[network Administration]]
[[Data Administration]]

System Admins are responsible for the IT services. The services include like email , file-storage and running a website. 

company [[servers]] are maintained by sysadmins. 

In general cloud computing s a concept that you can access your data , store files, use applications from anywhere in the world. 
Cloud is a [[network]] that store and process our data. previously [[data centers ]] 

Suppose you have a 1000 tetrabytes of Data, to store in your computer it is impossible. If you buy hardware to store other issues will come in to play like cost factor, space and so on. There is another option of uploading your data to a file storage service like DropBox which are managed in data centers or your can buy own servers on the internet wich comes with security updates, server hardware and software updates. The disadvantages is that the costs can add up because you are paying fixed amount every month. 

**Organization policies** 

 * Should users allowed to install the software. 
 * Should users allowed to create complex passwords
* Should users allows to use extenal websites like facebook
  
  **Policies must be documented**
  The employers can learn and maintain that policies. 
  
  **Services to be managed**
  1. Network access
  2. Secure connection to website and other services 
  3. update and patchup

**Tasks of system Admin?**
1. Able to create new users
2. Giving Access to company resources
3. ensure of having neccesary softwares
4. ensure hardware for provosioning and standardize it in someway
5. Maintaince of the hardware lifecycle

### hardware life cycle

1. Procurement: Hardware is purchased or reused for an employee
2. Deployment: To setup hardware so that employee can do thier Job
3. Maintainence: update or fixes hardware
4. Retirement: Hardware is unusable and no longer needed. 

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[servers]: servers "Servers"
[data centers]: data-centers "Data Centers"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"